docs: add spending limit topic (#4798)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/introduction/spending-limit.md

---

> title: Spending limit

Reviewer: Would "Spending alerts" be a better feature name? When we introduce project suspension, will you have a choice between alerts & alerts + suspension. Suspensions will shut you down, so perhaps users would like to be able to just enable alerts. In this case, we could adjust the name to "Spend limits and alerts" (with it just being "Spend alerts" right now.

> subtitle: Set a monthly cap on your organization's Neon charges and get email

Reviewer: It's not really a cap yet, right? You're just setting alerts.

  alerts when spending approaches it
enableTableOfContents: true
tag: new
---

<InfoBlock>
<DocsList title="What you will learn:">
<p>What a spending limit does</p>
<p>Who can set one</p>
<p>How to enable, edit, and disable a limit</p>
<p>What happens when the limit is reached</p>
</DocsList>

<DocsList title="Related topics" theme="docs">
<a href="/docs/introduction/manage-billing">Manage billing</a>
<a href="/docs/introduction/monitor-usage">Monitor billing and usage</a>
<a href="/docs/introduction/cost-optimization">Cost optimization</a>
</DocsList>
</InfoBlock>

## About spending limits

> A spending limit is a monthly cap on your organization's Neon charges. When spending approaches the limit, organization admins receive email alerts so they can take action before the bill grows further.

Reviewer: Same comment as above. There's no real cap yet.

Spending limits are available on the Launch and Scale plans. You manage them from the **Billing** page in the Neon Console.

<Admonition type="comingSoon" title="Automatic project suspension">

> Currently, email alerts are the only available action. Automatic project suspension is coming soon: when the limit is reached, project compute will pause until you raise the limit or the billing cycle resets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, email alerts are the only available action. Automatic project suspension is coming soon: When the limit is reached, your computes will pause until you raise the limit or the next monthly billing period begins.
```

</Admonition>

## Who can set a spending limit

Only organization admins can enable, edit, or disable a spending limit. Other members see the limit in read-only form on the **Billing** page.

## Alert thresholds

When a spending limit is set, Neon sends email alerts to organization admins at two thresholds:

- When spending reaches 80% of the limit
- When spending reaches 100% of the limit

Neon checks your spending every 15 minutes. Once spending crosses a threshold, an alert email goes out, and reminders continue weekly until you raise the limit or the billing cycle resets.

## Enable a spending limit

1. Navigate to the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech).
1. Select your organization from the breadcrumb menu at the top-left.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.

> 1. On the **Spending limit** card, select **Enable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the **Monthly spending alert** card, select **Enable spending alert**.
```

> 1. In the **Enable spending limit** dialog, enter a whole-dollar amount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Enable monthly spending alert** dialog, enter a whole-dollar amount.
```

1. Select **Enable**.

The **Spending limit** card now shows the current spending and a progress bar toward the limit.

## Edit the limit

1. Navigate to the **Billing** page.
1. On the **Spending limit** card, select **Edit**.
1. Update the amount and select **Save**.

You can also open the edit dialog from the over-limit banner by selecting **Manage spending limit**. The banner appears in the Console when spending is approaching the limit or has reached it.

## Disable the limit

1. Navigate to the **Billing** page.
1. On the **Spending limit** card, select **Disable**.

> 1. Confirm in the **Disable spending limit** dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confirm in the **Disable monthly spending limit** dialog.
```
